README.md, before:

# Meshenger - An Open-Source P2P Messenger

This Android app allows voice- and videocommunication without any server or Internet access. Simply scan each others contact QR-Code and call each other. This works on most networks such as community networks or even company networks.

[<img src="https://f-droid.org/badge/get-it-on.png"
     alt="Get it on F-Droid"
     height="90">](https://f-droid.org/packages/d.d.meshenger/)

![Contact List](docs/contact_list.png)
![QR-Code Offer](docs/qr_offer.png)
![QR-Code Scanner](docs/qr_scanner.png)
![Manual Contact Exchange](docs/manual_exchange.png)

## How Does It Work?

### Finding Contacts

Contacts are found by taking the devices own IPv6 addresses and replacing the devices own MAC address by the contacts MAC address. This results in using IPv6 Link Local addresses (fe80::/10) and Unique Unicast addresses (fc00::/7 using the [EUI-64](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/EUI-64) format).

### Audio/Video transmission

Audio and Video are transmitted via [WebRTC](https://webrtc.org/). WebRTC is a standard that is also implemented in all major web browsers. WebRTC has facilities to circumvent NAT scenarios via servers (Meshenger does not use this feature), Audio and Video codecs and end to end encryption.

WebRTC does not support signaling and authentication. The signaling information is transmitted directly as plaintext.

## Project Context

This project was sponsored by the [Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/) 2018 as part of the [Freifunk](https://freifunk.net) organization to make local community networks more attractive.

The development can be followed via the [Freifunk blog](https://blog.freifunk.net):

* [Initial Project Description](https://projects.freifunk.net/#/projects?project=local_phone_app&lang=en)
* [Meshenger Update 1](https://blog.freifunk.net/2018/06/10/meshenger-p2p-local-network-messenger-update-1/)
* [Meshenger Update 2](https://blog.freifunk.net/2018/07/07/meshenger-p2p-local-network-messenger-update-2/)
* [Meshenger final update](https://blog.freifunk.net/2018/08/14/meshenger-p2p-local-network-messenger-final-update/)

## Ideas/Future Plans

* optional global connection via Internet in case no local connection is available
* optional direct connection via WiFi-Direct in case no AccessPoint is available

Commit message:

update readme and add new screenshots

README.md, after:

# Meshenger - An Open-Source P2P Messenger

 Allow voice- and video communication without any server or Internet access. Simply scan each others QR-Code and call each other. This works in many networks such as community mesh networks, company networks or at home.

Features:

- audio and video support
- contact authentication via public/secret keys
- database backup and encryption
- add custom addresses to reach participant

## Download

[<img src="docs/fdroid.png" alt="Get it on F-Droid" height="90">](https://f-droid.org/packages/d.d.meshenger/)
[<img src="docs/apk.png" alt="Get it on GitHub" height="90">](https://github.com/meshenger-app/meshenger-android/releases)

## Screenshots

<img src="docs/logo_2.0.0.png" width="170"> <img src="docs/hello_2.0.0.png" width="170"> <img src="docs/contacts_2.0.0.png" width="170"> <img src="docs/qrcode_2.0.0.png" width="170"> <img src="docs/settings_2.0.0.png" width="170">

## Documentation

Meshenger exchanges the contact name, public key and MAC address via QR-Code. The MAC address is used to create an IP address to connect to clients. The exchanged public key is used to authenticate/encrypt signaling data to establish a [WebRTC](https://webrtc.org/) session that can trasmit audio and video.

Details can be found in the [Documentation](docs/Documentation.md)
